Add definition for blacklist/whitelist, fix styling of blockquotes (#308)
tatianamac/selfdefined: 11ty/definitions/blacklist-whitelist.md

---

> title: Blacklist Whitelist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: blacklist whitelist
```

slug: blacklist-whitelist
flag:
  level: avoid
  text: racist term
defined: true

> exceprt: terms used in many contexts to represent a list of entities or people who are to be allowed or denied access to a service, privilege, or recognition. To "blacklist" is "to exclude", to "whitelist" means "to include".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
except: umbrella term used to represent a list of entities/people who are to be allowed or denied access to a service, privilege, or recognition: to "blacklist" is "to exclude", to "whitelist" means "to include".
```

speech: noun; verb
alt_words:
  - 'blacklist (noun): blocklist, denylist, excludelist'
  - 'whitelist (noun): allowlist, passlist, trustlist, safelist'
  - 'blacklist (verb): block, deny, exclude'

>   - 'whitelist (verb): allow, trust, include'

Reviewer: Here you can take advantage of some nestted terms here to keep this a bit neater:

You can see the [dude definition](https://www.selfdefined.app/definitions/dude/) as an example of how this might work.

Author: Oh this is awesome!

reading:
  - text: Basecamp stops using black/whitelist (tweet)

>     href: https://twitter.com/dhh/status/1032050325513940992

Reviewer: I'd suggest replacing this tweet with https://www.techspot.com/news/85080-uk-cyber-security-agency-stop-using-racist-blacklist.html

  - text: Google Chrome team moves away from black/whitelist to be more inclusing
    href: https://9to5google.com/2020/06/12/google-android-chrome-blacklist-blocklist-more-inclusive/
  - text: Google developers styleguide entry for blacklist
    href: https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#blacklist
---

To allow or deny access to a service, a privilege, or recognition.

## Issue

Using a color to denote whether an entity is included or excluded from a group draws parallels to the idea that Black and White people have respectively been denied and allowed privileges based on the color of their skin. Similarly to the concept of [master/slave](/definitions/master-slave), blacklist/whitelist is used casually in the realm of software development, which reinforces the exclusion of Black people in the industry.

> 

Reviewer: Under this area, I'd love a bit more finessing and context added with the historical context and origins of the term:

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6148600/ offers some tactical insights about where the terms first began and the context of slavery.

I suggest that we parse the issues into two main buckets of issues:
- Black/white as a good/bad dichotomy
- Black/white admittance and denial (Jim Crow)

---
title: blacklist whitelist
slug: blacklist-whitelist
flag:
  level: avoid
  text: racist term
defined: true

> excerpt: 'umbrella term used to represent a list of entities/people who are to be allowed or denied access to a service, privilege, or recognition: to "blacklist" is "to exclude", to "whitelist" means "to include".'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: 'umbrella term used to represent a list of entities/people who are to be allowed or denied access to a service, privilege, or recognition: to "blacklist" is "to exclude", to "whitelist" means "to include;" carries anti-Black sentiments'
```

speech: noun; verb
alt_words:
  blacklist (noun):
    - blocklist
    - denylist
    - excludelist
  whitelist (noun):
    - allowlist
    - passlist
    - trustlist
    - safelist
  to blacklist (verb):
    - to block
    - to deny
    - to exclude
  to whitelist (verb):
    - to allow
    - to trust
    - to include
reading:
  - text: UK security agency bans blacklist and whitelist for being racist
    href: https://www.techspot.com/news/85080-uk-cyber-security-agency-stop-using-racist-blacklist.html
  - text: Google Chrome team moves away from black/whitelist to be more inclusing
    href: https://9to5google.com/2020/06/12/google-android-chrome-blacklist-blocklist-more-inclusive/
  - text: Google developers styleguide entry for blacklist
    href: https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#blacklist
  - text: '"Blacklists” and “whitelists": a salutary warning concerning the prevalence of racist language in discussions of predatory publishing'
    href: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6148600/
---

> To allow or deny access to a service, a privilege, or recognition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
colloquially: umbrella term used to represent a list of entities/people who are to be allowed or denied access to a service, privilege, or recognition: to "blacklist" is "to exclude", to "whitelist" means "to include;" carries anti-Black sentiments
```
I think what you have in the excerpt is honestly more complete. I also added the last phrase because we try to include the issues immediately so that if people only read the top level definition, they get this context.

> ## Issues

Author: I'd love some feedback on this section especially

<!-- Black/white admittance and denial (Jim Crow) -->

> The first problem is the admittance and denial of people based on their race and skin color. The term are rooted in racism: "blacklist" started appearing when the enslavement and deportation of Africans by Europeans began.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first problem is the admittance and denial of people based on their race and skin color. The terms are rooted in racist history: "blacklist" started appearing when the enslavement and deportation of Africans by Europeans began.
```
I think here we need to be mindful of breaking down this connection a bit more. According to the research I did, `blacklist` came from the 1600s and "black books." So, while _etymologically_ the origins predate American slavery, it's that the terms black and white in *modern* usage carry a racial meaning. By using these terms, we're reinforcing the idea that black is bad and white is good, and therefore, reinforcing the systemic and infrastructural racism in a small and powerful way.

Mostly I want to ensure that "well actually" people don't "get us" on a technicality (and also I want to ensure we're promoting as much historical accuracy as possible, while still reinforcing the idea that there are better terms.)

> Using "black" and "white" to determine whether an entity is included or excluded from a group is correlated to the racist idea that Black and White people have been respectively denied and allowed privileges based on the color of their skin. Similarly to the concept of [master/slave](/definitions/master-slave), blacklist/whitelist is used casually in the realm of software development, which reinforces the exclusion of Black people from the industry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using "black" and "white" to determine whether an entity is excluded or included, respectively, from a group supports the systemic racism that denies Black people entry while allowing white people entry. Similarly to the concept of [master/slave](/definitions/master-slave), blacklist/whitelist is used abundantly and casually in the realm of software development, which can reinforce the systemic exclusion of Black people from the industry.
```

<!-- Black/white as a good/bad dichotomy -->

The second issue with these terms is the implication that black is bad and white is good. A "blacklist" often refers to a list of undesirable things (spammy phone numbers, undesired guests, etc.) whereas a "whitelist" refers to a list of virtuous things (important guests, emails we want to receive, etc.) In 1610, the _Douglas Harper Etymology Dictionary_ defined the term "blacklist" as a "list of persons who have incurred suspicion".

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the origins predate the transatlantic slave trade, the concept of a blacklist as eliciting "suspicion" reinforce the systemic racism that causes disproportionately [higher incarceration and incrimination of Black people](https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/2020/opinions/systemic-racism-police-evidence-criminal-justice-system/) for equivalent crimes to non-Black people. 
```
Adding a clause such as this will help to prevent the "gotchas" I shared above.

From [this NCBI article](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6148600/):

> "To compound the issue, it is also striking how often the term “whitelist” is used for a supposedly good, respectable, or safe list of publishers. The racism in such “black is bad, white is good” metaphors is inappropriate and needs to cease."

These terms not only reflect, but they also reinforce and perpetuate a racist culture.

## Usage Tip

> Seek to change any existing "blacklist/whitelist" terminology to one of the suggested terms, which have the advantage of being more descriptive and less jargony.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be more specific: Not only are "blacklist/whitelist" racist, they tend to be jargony and change from usage to usage as to what it means.
```

> Even if you may not be negatively impacted by this terminology, it can negatively impact other existing and prospective contributors onto your project. The terminology isn't so unique that it's irreplaceable; the lift tends to be trivial in comparison to the potential impact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even if you may not be negatively impacted by this terminology, it can negatively impact other existing and prospective contributors onto your project and spaces. The terminology isn't so unique that it's irreplaceable; the lift tends to be trivial in comparison to the potential impact.
```

    - trustlist
    - safelist
  to blacklist (verb):
    - to block
    - to deny
    - to exclude
  to whitelist (verb):
    - to allow
    - to trust
    - to include
reading:
  - text: UK security agency bans blacklist and whitelist for being racist
    href: https://www.techspot.com/news/85080-uk-cyber-security-agency-stop-using-racist-blacklist.html
  - text: Google Chrome team moves away from black/whitelist to be more inclusing
    href: https://9to5google.com/2020/06/12/google-android-chrome-blacklist-blocklist-more-inclusive/
  - text: Google developers styleguide entry for blacklist
    href: https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#blacklist
  - text: '"Blacklists” and “whitelists": a salutary warning concerning the prevalence of racist language in discussions of predatory publishing'
    href: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6148600/
---

colloquially: umbrella term used to represent a list of entities/people who are to be allowed or denied access to a service, privilege, or recognition: to "blacklist" is "to exclude", to "whitelist" means "to include;" carries anti-Black sentiments

## Issues

<!-- Black/white admittance and denial (Jim Crow) -->

> The first problem is the admittance and denial of people based on their race and skin color. The terms are rooted in racist history: "blacklist" started appearing when the enslavement and deportation of Africans by Europeans began.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first problem is the admittance and denial of people based on their race and skin color. The terms are rooted in racist history: "blacklist" started appearing when the enslavement and deportation of Africans by Europeans began.
```
I think we'll want to remove/adjust the above section, as to me it feels in direct contradiction with line 53?

Author: You're right. I've moved things around a little: I kept the reference to the 1610 definition because I think the correlation between the peak of the transatlantic slave trade and the term being coined in a dictionary is important, but I fixed the chronological inconsistency.
